> ## Documentation for Axflow Fork
> 
> This fork followed the original _Getting Started_ guide below to prepare this sample project so it can record raw video and audio. Namely,
>
> 1. Download the Linux Meeting SDK.
> 2. Copy relevant SDK files to `demo/lib`.
> 3. Create a Node script in `token` to generate required JWT.
> 4. Create `demo/config.txt` to store configuration.
> 5. Modify `demo/ZoomSDKRenderer.cpp` so the app unconditionally records videos.
> 
> ### Meeting SDK
> 
> The SDK downloaded from marketplace.zoom.us and used here is `sdk/zoom-meeting-sdk-linux_x86_64-6.0.2.4740.tar.xz`.
>
> If you want to try a newer SDK,
> 1. Pull the latest changes from the original repository at https://github.com/zoom/meetingsdk-linux-raw-recording-sample.
> 2. Put a copy of the newer SDK in `sdk`.
> 3. Redo step 1 of _Getting Started_.
>
> ### Configuration
> 
> You need to create _App Credentials_ once by following instructions in https://developers.zoom.us/docs/meeting-sdk/developer-accounts/#get-meeting-sdk-credentials.
>
> 1. Client ID
> 2. Client Secret
>
> For every Zoom session you wish to record, you must generate these configurations and save them to `demo/config.txt`.
> 
> | Key              | Value               |
> |------------------|---------------------| 
> |`meeting_number`  | Zoom Meeting ID     |
> |`meeting_password`| Zoom Meeting Secret |
> |`token`           | JWT Access Token    |
>
> #### `meeting_number` & `meeting_password`
>
> 1. Start a Zoom meeting or join a meeting as a host.
> 2. Follow instructions to _Copy Invitation_ text in https://support.zoom.com/hc/en/article?id=zm_kb&sysparm_article=KB0063688#h_01GPFEENFS345TVTRGK9ECVX7Q
> 3. Paste your clipboard somewhere.
> 4. Put the _Meeting ID_ as `meeting_number` in `demo/config.txt` as a string.
> 5. Put the _Passcode_ as `meeting_password` in `demo/config.txt` as a string.
>
> #### `token`
>
> The access token is generated by the Node script in `token` (taken from https://developers.zoom.us/docs/meeting-sdk/auth/#sample-code).
>
> 1. Install Node dependencies.
> ```
> npm ci --prefix token
> ```
> 2. Open `token/index.js`.
> 3. Replace `"REPLACE_WITH_CLIENT_ID"` with the _App Credentials_ Client ID as a string.
> 4. Replace `"REPLACE_WITH_CLIENT_SECRET"` with the _App Credentials_ Client Secret as a string.
> 5. Replace `REPLACE_WITH_MEETING_ID` with `meeting_number` as an integer. NOTE: Here this value is a number, not a string.
> 6. Run `node token/index.js`.
> 7. Put the generated output as `token` in `demo/config.txt` as a string.
>
> ### How to Capture Raw Video & Audio
>
> 1. You should already be in a Zoom meeting as a host after preparing the configurations above.
> 2. Build the sample app by running (from repository’s root)
> ```bash
> docker build --tag msdk-5.17.11-on-ubuntu-compact --file Dockerfile-Ubuntu/Dockerfile
> ```
> 3. Make a `share` directory to share files between container and host through bind mount.
> 3. Run the sample app.
> ```bash
> docker run --interactive --tty --mount type=bind,source=$(pwd)/share,target=/app/demo/share msdk-5.17.11-on-ubuntu-compact
> ```
> 4. A bot named _LinuxChan_ should join your Zoom meeting.
> 5. To start recording, open the Zoom meeting and [assign recording privileges](https://support.zoom.com/hc/en/article?id=zm_kb&sysparm_article=KB0063640#h_3a53d485-a50f-4f6a-8019-533a0526fe47) to _LinuxChan_ or [make it a co-host](https://support.zoom.com/hc/en/article?id=zm_kb&sysparm_article=KB0066640#h_9c3ee7f2-b70c-4061-8dcf-00dd836b2075).
> 6. You should see a lot of logs showing video and audio getting successfully captured.
> 7. Stop the recording by removing recording privileges or press `Ctrl` + `C` to terminate the sample app.
> 8. Within the container, you should find raw video captured in `/app/demo/bin/output.yuv` and raw audio in `audio.pcm`.
> 9. Copy these files to the host.
> ```
> cp /app/demo/bin/output.yuv /app/demo/share/output.yuv
> cp /app/demo/bin/audio.pcm /app/demo/share/audio.pcm
> ```
>
> ### Convert Raw Video to MP4
>
> Raw video is captured in YUV format (unfortunately documentation does not get more specific than that).
>
> To convert it to MP4 using ffmpeg (version 6.1.1), run
> ```
> ffmpeg -f rawvideo -pix_fmt yuv420p -video_size "640*360" -framerate 25 -i output.yuv -f mp4 output.mp4
> ```  
>
> `"640*360"` is the frame size and could be different depending on the final frame size negotiated between the sample app and Zoom’s servers. Scan the logs to determine the actual frame size captured.
>
> ### Convert Raw Audio to WAV
>
> Raw audio is capture in PCM format (as with video, documentation does not get more specific).
>
> To convert it to WAV using ffmpeg (version 6.1.1), run
> ```
> ffmpeg -f s16le -ar 32k -ac 1 -i audio.pcm audio.wav
> ```
>
> ### Source Code Changes
>
> Only `ZoomSDKRenderer.app` is modified in this way.
>
> ```diff
> -if (data->GetStreamHeight() == 720) {
> +// if (data->GetStreamHeight() == 720) {
> SaveToRawYUVFile(data);
> -}
> +// }
> ```
> 
> For some reason, the original sample app only saves video if the video frame is exactly 720 pixels high. My captured frames were 360 pixels high regardless of how I change hard-coded variables so this change is required. 


# Zoom Meeting SDK Linux Sample App

The is a sample app for Zoom Meeting SDK Linux. It demonstrates access to raw audio and raw video in a headless docker environment.

## Prerequistes
1. [Zoom Account](https://zoom.us)
2. [Zoom Meeting SDK App Type](https://marketplace.zoom.us)
2. Authentication token signed by 
    1. Client ID
    2. Client Secret
3. Meeting Recording Token (Optional)
4. Docker environment
5. Linux or Windows with WSL environment.
6. VS Code or Visual Studio
 ======================================================================

## Getting Started

### Download Linux Meeting SDK from marketplace.zoom.us

1 Please decompress the downloaded `zoom-meeting-sdk-linux_x86_64-5.xx.x.xxxx.tar` and copy the files in the decompressed folder to these sample-app folders

 -  `h` to `demo/include/h`
 - `qt_libs` to `demo/lib/zoom_meeting_sdk/qt_libs`
 - all the `lib******.so` files to `demo/lib/zoom_meeting_sdk/lib******.so`
 - copy `translation.json` to `demo/lib/zoom_meeting_sdk/json`
 - softlink  `libmeetingsdk.so` to `libmeetingsdk.so.1` within `demo/lib/zoom_meeting_sdk/` . You can use the command `ln -s libmeetingsdk.so libmeetingsdk.so.1` to do so.

2 Execute `cmake -B build` in demo/ folder . After successful` cmake`, the `demo/build/` folder will be generated.

3 Execute `make` in the `/demo/build/` directory to compile

### Notes for using the demo:
1. The sdk auth token, password, meeting number etc.. needs to be written in the config.txt file.
The [recording_token](https://developers.zoom.us/docs/meeting-sdk/apis/#operation/meetingLocalRecordingJoinToken) when entered, will allow you to recording with additional actions from host.

`GetVideoRawData`, `GetAudioRawData`, `SendVideoRawData`, `SendAudioRawData` are boolean control variables. You can search for them in the sample code to understand the flow.

### Disclaimer
Please be aware that all hard-coded variables and constants shown in the documentation and in the demo, such as Zoom Token, Zoom Access, Token, etc., are ONLY FOR DEMO AND TESTING PURPOSES. We STRONGLY DISCOURAGE the way of HARDCODING any Zoom Credentials (username, password, API Keys & secrets, SDK keys & secrets, etc.) or any Personal Identifiable Information (PII) inside your application. WE DON’T MAKE ANY COMMITMENTS ABOUT ANY LOSS CAUSED BY HARD-CODING CREDENTIALS OR SENSITIVE INFORMATION INSIDE YOUR APP WHEN DEVELOPING WITH OUR SDK.

```

meeting_number: "1234567890"
token: "xxxxxxxx.yyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy.zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz"
meeting_password: "123456"
recording_token: ""
GetVideoRawData: "true"
GetAudioRawData: "true"
SendVideoRawData: "false"
SendAudioRawData: "false"

```
2. You need to fill in `withoutloginParam.userName = "";`  in `meeting_sdk_demo.cpp`. `meeting_sdk_demo.cpp` is the starting point of the demo app.
3. Once init sdk and auth sdk are successfully executed, only then you can join and leave meeting.
4. Once you have successfully joined a meeting, subscribing to raw audio and raw video requires either
    1. either host/co-host/local-recording rights or 
    2. meeting recording token
5. You will need a file named `~\.config.us\zoomus.conf` before you can access raw audio in an environment without soundcard, such as docker and WSL environment. The sample zoomus.conf file is generated in the `setup-pulseaudio.sh` files
6. For Sending Raw Audio and Raw Video, there are 2 methods (`turnOnSendVideoAndAudio` and `turnOnSendVideoAndAudio`) which you will need to call 
## CMakeLists.txt
If you have additional cpp and/or .h files, you might need to be included in this CMakeLists.txt

```
add_executable(meetingSDKDemo 
              ${CMAKE_SOURCE_DIR}/meeting_sdk_demo.cpp
              ${CMAKE_SOURCE_DIR}/init_auth_sdk_workflow.cpp
              ${CMAKE_SOURCE_DIR}/meeting_sdk_util.cpp
              ${CMAKE_SOURCE_DIR}/init_auth_sdk_workflow.h
              ${CMAKE_SOURCE_DIR}/meeting_sdk_util.h
              ${CMAKE_SOURCE_DIR}/RegressionTestRawdataRender.cpp
              ${CMAKE_SOURCE_DIR}/RegressionTestRawdataRender.h
              ${CMAKE_SOURCE_DIR}/custom_ui_eventSink.h
              ${CMAKE_SOURCE_DIR}/custom_ui_eventSink.cpp
              ${CMAKE_SOURCE_DIR}/MeetingReminderEventListener.h
              ${CMAKE_SOURCE_DIR}/MeetingReminderEventListener.cpp
              )
```

Similarly for libraries

```
target_link_libraries(meetingSDKDemo gcc_s gcc)
target_link_libraries(meetingSDKDemo meetingsdk)
target_link_libraries(meetingSDKDemo glib-2.0)
target_link_libraries(meetingSDKDemo pthread)
```

# Docker

The sample app has been tested on Centos 8, Centos 9, Ubuntu 22 and Ubuntu 23.
Here are some dependencies you will need to include.


## Centos

This is tested on WSL and Docker centos 9 and Centos 8
Here are some dependencies to get it to run on Centos.
Some packages might be redundant, and has not been optimized.


#### Install files for compiling
```
sudo yum install cmake
sudo yum install gcc gcc-c++
```

#### Enable the CodeReady Linux Builder repository
```
sudo dnf config-manager --set-enabled crb
```

#### Install the EPEL RPM.

```
sudo dnf install epel-release epel-next-release
```


#### CURL related dependencies
 ```
 yum install -y openssl-devel
 yum install -y libcurl-devel 
 ```

#### Install Pulseaudio
``` 
yum install -y  pulseaudio pulseaudio-utils 
```

#### If you encounter: Fatal error: SDL2/SDL.h: No such file or directory. This is no longer in used at code level, but leaving this here for legacy support purposes
```
sudo yum -y install SDL2-devel
```

#### If you encounter these error Messages
#/usr/bin/ld: warning: libxcb-image.so.0, needed by /root/release_demo/demo/libmeetingsdk.so, not found (try using -rpath or -rpath-link)
#/usr/bin/ld: warning: libxcb-keysyms.so.1, needed by /root/release_demo/demo/libmeetingsdk.so, not found (try using -rpath or -rpath-link)
```
sudo yum install libxcb-devel
sudo yum install xcb-util-devel
sudo yum install xcb-util-image
sudo yum install xcb-util-keysyms
```

#### If you encounter these runtime runtime error
#libGL error: MESA-LOADER: failed to open swrast: /usr/lib64/dri/swrast_dri.so: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory (search paths /usr/lib64/dri, suffix _dri)
```
sudo yum install mesa-libGL
sudo yum install mesa-libGL-devel
sudo yum install mesa-dri-drivers
```

==============================================================

## Ubuntu 

This is tested on WSL and Docker Ubuntu 22 and 23
Here are some dependencies to get it to run on Ubuntu.
Some packages might be redundant, and has not been optimized.


#### Install necessary dependencies
```
apt-get update && apt-get install -y build-essential cmake

apt-get install -y --no-install-recommends --no-install-suggests \
    libx11-xcb1 \
    libxcb-xfixes0 \
    libxcb-shape0 \
    libxcb-shm0 \
    libxcb-randr0 \
    libxcb-randr0 \
    libxcb-image0 \
    libxcb-keysyms1 \
    libxcb-xtest0 
 ```
 #### optional libraries
``` 
apt-get install -y --no-install-recommends --no-install-suggests \
    libdbus-1-3 \
    libglib2.0-0 \
    libgbm1 \
    libxfixes3 \
    libgl1 \
    libdrm2 \
    libgssapi-krb5-2 
```


#### CURL related dependencies
```
apt-get install libcurl4-openssl-dev \
    openssl \
    ca-certificates \
    pkg-config 
```

#### Install Pulseaudio
```
apt-get install -y  pulseaudio pulseaudio-utils 
```

#### if you are getting error about <SDL2/SDL.h>
```
apt-get install libegl-mesa0 libsdl2-dev g++-multilib
```




## Addition requirement for raw audio data in docker / headless environment with no soundcard
Additional file in ~/.config/zoomus.conf

[General]
system.audio.type=default

## Dockerfiles


Dockerfile targetting different distros are provided in this sample app as well (Dockerfile-centos, Dockerfile-Ubuntu .....)
Currently this is tested on 
- Centos 9 (functionality where custom function of fetching JWT Token from Web Service does not work, main SDK function works fully)
- Centos 8
- Ubuntu 22

## Run these in /demo directory


#### Centos 8
docker build -t msdk-5.17.11-on-centos8-compact -f Dockerfile-Centos8/Dockerfile .
docker run -it --rm msdk-5.17.11-on-centos8-compact

#### Centos 9
docker build -t msdk-5.17.11-on-centos9-compact -f Dockerfile-Centos9/Dockerfile .
docker run -it --rm msdk-5.17.11-on-centos9-compact

#### Ubuntu 22
docker build -t msdk-5.17.11-on-ubuntu-compact -f Dockerfile-Ubuntu/Dockerfile .
docker run -it --rm msdk-5.17.11-on-ubuntu-compact


## Pulseaudio

The configuration for pulseaudio has been provided for you as shell scripts.

The setup is done via `setup-pulseaudio.sh` and `setup-pulssaudio-centos.sh`, this need to be run prior to running this project in a docker environment.

The script 
- starts the pulseaudio service, 
- creates a virtual speaker, 
- a virtual microphone, and 
- add a zoomus.conf file in the docker environment.

## Need help?

If you're looking for help, try [Developer Support](https://devsupport.zoom.us) or
our [Developer Forum](https://devforum.zoom.us). Priority support is also available
with [Premier Developer Support](https://zoom.us/docs/en-us/developer-support-plans.html) plans.

### Documentation
Make sure to review [our documentation](https://marketplace.zoom.us/docs/zoom-apps/introduction/) as a reference when building your Zoom Apps.

